h1(#nfs). NFS

h2. client

bc. mkdir /mnt/vmsrv

edit @/etc/fstab@ example:

bc. vl-vmsrv2:/OVS/downloads	/mnt/vmsrv	nfs	defaults	0 0

bc. 
yum install -y nfs-utils
mount -t rpc_pipefs sunpc /var/lib/nfs/rpc_pipefs
service portmap start
service nfs start
mount -a

h2. server

bc. 
yum install nfs-utils
mount -t rpc_pipefs sunpc /var/lib/nfs/rpc_pipefs
service portmap start
system-config-securitylevel-tui --quiet --port=111 --port=2049
service nfs start

server: /etc/mounts example:

bc. /OVS/downloads *(rw,sync,all_squash,anonuid=500,anongid=500)

h1. Java

bc. yum install java-1.6.0-openjdk

h1. Tomcat

bc. 
yum install tomcat5
chkconfig --level 5 tomcat5 on

Open port 8080

bc. /usr/bin/system-config-securitylevel-tui

Customize > other ports > 8080:tcp

Create an @oracle@ user and give sudo permissions.

bc. 
useradd oracle
passwd oracle
usermod -a -G tomcat oracle
yum install sudo
visudo

add the following line to the end of the file:

bc. 
oracle wcfs=/sbin/service tomcat5 restart,/sbin/service tomcat5 stop, /sbin/service tomcat5 start

h1. Glassfish

Setup the WWW proxy so wget will work.  You'll probably have a different URL to download glassfish from.

bc. 
export http_proxy=http://www-proxy.sg.oracle.com
wget -c http://files.spicevan.com/glassfish-3.0.1.zip
yum install unzip
unzip glassfish-3.0.1.zip

put the asadmin dir into your path for oracle: 

bc. vi ~/.bashrc
export PATH=$PATH:~/bin/glassfishv3/glassfish/bin/

ensure the value returned by @hostname@ is on the line (at the end of the line) for the 127.0.0.1 ipaddress
ensure nothing is running on ports 8080 4848

bc. 
sudo netstat -atunp | grep 4848; sudo netstat -atunp | grep 8080
netstat -atun | grep 4848; netstat -atun | grep 8080

h2(glassfish-admin). Admin

Deploy/Undeploy

bc. 
$ cd ~oracle/bin/glassfish-3.0.1/glassfish/bin
$ ./asadmin list-applications
$ ./asadmin deploy ~/projects/MvnSesFe/target/SES.war 
$ ./asadmin undeploy com.oracle.git_MvnSesFe_war_1.0-SNAPSHOT
$ ./asadmin start-domain
$ ./asadmin stop-domain

Watch the logs

bc. 
$ cd ~/bin/glassfish-3.0.1/glassfish/domains/domain1/logs/
$ tail -f server.log

See where your app is deployed to:

bc. 
$ cd ~/bin/glassfish-3.0.1/glassfish/domains/domain1/applications
$ find .

h3. Automatically Deploy/Undeploy

bc. cp sample-dir/hello.war as-install/domains/domain1/autodeploy

h3. Auto start/stop scripts:

in @/etc/init.d/glassfish@ put:

h4. startup/shutdown script:

bc.. 
#!/bin/bash
#
# glassfish:          Startup script for Glassfish Application Server.
#
# chkconfig: 3 80 05
# description:      Startup script for domain1 of Glassfish Application Server.
 
GLASSFISH_HOME=/home/oracle/bin/glassfishv3/glassfish;
export GLASSFISH_HOME
 
GLASSFISH_OWNER=oracle;
export GLASSFISH_OWNER
 
start() {
        echo -n "Starting Glassfish: "
        echo "Starting Glassfish at `date`" >> $GLASSFISH_HOME/domains/domain1/logs/startup.log
        su $GLASSFISH_OWNER -c "$GLASSFISH_HOME/bin/asadmin start-domain domain1" >> $GLASSFISH_HOME/domains/domain1/logs/startup.log
        sleep 2
        echo "done"
}
 
stop() {
        echo -n "Stopping Glassfish: "
        echo "Stopping Glassfish at `date`" >> $GLASSFISH_HOME/domains/domain1/logs/startup.log
        su $GLASSFISH_OWNER -c "$GLASSFISH_HOME/bin/asadmin stop-domain domain1" >> $GLASSFISH_HOME/domains/domain1/logs/startup.log
        echo "done"
}
 
# See how we were called.
case "$1" in
        start)
                start
                ;;
        stop)
                stop
                ;;
        restart)
                stop
                start
                ;;
        *)
                echo $"Usage: glassfish {start|stop|restart}"
                exit
esac

h4. Install Service

bc. 
#chmod +x /etc/init.d/glassfish
#chkconfig --add glassfish
#chkconfig --level 3 glassfish on

h4. Start Service

bc. 
#/etc/init.d/glassfish start

h4. Open port in firewall

bc. system-config-securitylevel-tui --quiet --port=8080

h1(#git). GIT

* Install python-setuptools on your server, you'll need it to install gitosis.
As root:

bc. yum -y install python-setuptools

p(#rpmforge). 

* On your laptop download: 

bc. http://apt.sw.be/redhat/el5/en/i386/rpmforge/RPMS/rpmforge-release-0.3.6-1.el5.rf.i386.rpm

upload it to your server 

bc. rsync -avP rpmforge-release-0.3.6-1.el5.rf.i386.rpm root@linux1.hk.oracle.com:/root/

and do:

bc. rpm -ivh rpmforge-release-0.3.6-1.el5.rf.i386.rpm

* Install GIT

bc. yum -y install git

* Install Gitosis

on laptop download: 

bc. http://felixembeddedonandroid.googlecode.com/files/gitosis.tar.gz

upload to server

bc. rsync -avP gitosis.tar.gz root@linux1.hk.oracle.com:/root/

on server

bc. 
tar xvfz gitosis.tar.gz
cd gitosis
python setup.py install

* Create a user called git, and set the password.

bc. 
useradd git
passwd git

* Copy your laptop public key to server

bc. scp /home/oracle/.ssh/id_rsa.pub git@linux1.hk.oracle.com:/home/git

* On server AS git USER!!!

bc. 
gitosis-init < id_rsa.pub
rm id_rsa.pub
chmod 755 /home/git; chmod 700 /home/git/.ssh; chmod 644 /home/git/.ssh/authorized_keys

* On client (laptop)

bc. 
cd ~; mkdir projects; cd projects
git clone git@linux1.hk.oracle.com:gitosis-admin.git
cd gitosis-admin/

You are pretty much done now...see: "GIT":/training/git.html for more instructions

source: "http://nfocipher.com/index.php?op=ViewArticle&articleId=12&blogId=1":http://nfocipher.com/index.php?op=ViewArticle&articleId=12&blogId=1


h1. HTTP

bc. yum install -y httpd

