Yum Repo File: Put a proper yum file in /etc/yum.repos.d, so we can download from the yum repositories.  Get it from: 

bc. http://public-yum.oracle.com/public-yum-el5.repo 
	
Change all the enabled=0 to enabled=1 for YOUR version.  If you have OEL 5 update 5 then set that section to enabled


Setup DNS servername by adding line:

bc. 
[root@ucm2 network-scripts]# cat /etc/resolv.conf
nameserver 192.168.8.1


Throw in an id_rsa.pub into /root/.ssh/authorized_hosts so you dont
need to give a password when you ssh in.

bc. [root@oas ~]# mkdir .ssh; chmod 700 .ssh; cd .ssh; cat ../id_rsa.pub > authorized_keys; chmod 0600 authorized_keys
	

h2. Turn off firewall	
	
Turn off firewall on startup and shutdown right now too (not sure if ip6tables is required or not)

bc. [root@ucm1 u01]# chkconfig --del iptables; chkconfig --del ip6tables
	
Shutdown firewall services

bc. [root@ucm1 u01]# service iptables stop; service ip6tables stop
	
h2. Setup Static IP

Static IP: To convert a dhcp OEL to Static IP address edit file:

bc. 
[root@ucm2 network-scripts]# cat /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0
DEVICE=eth0
ONBOOT=yes
BOOTPROTO=static
IPADDR=192.168.8.118
NETMASK=255.255.255.0
GATEWAY=192.168.8.1
TYPE=Ethernet
[root@ucm2 network-scripts]# vi /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0

Hostname: Change / set the hostname here:

bc. 
[root@ucm2 network-scripts]# cat /etc/sysconfig/network
NETWORKING=yes
NETWORKING_IPV6=no
HOSTNAME=ucm2
# HOSTNAME=ucm2.ftravers.com # Note can put fully qualified or not
[root@ucm2 network-scripts]# vi /etc/sysconfig/network

Hostname: set for this session with:
	[root@localhost ~]# hostname
	localhost.localdomain
	[root@localhost ~]# hostname ucm
	[root@localhost ~]# hostname
	ucm
	

See that hosts is correct too:
	[root@ucm2 network-scripts]# cat /etc/hosts
	127.0.0.1 localhost.localdomain localhost
	::1 localhost6.localdomain6 localhost6
	192.168.8.118 ucm2
	[root@ucm2 network-scripts]# vi /etc/hosts

Now you can restart your network services with the following command:
	[root@dhcp-onepacificplace-10-179-252-87 network-scripts]# service network restart
	
	[root@db11g ~]# cat >> /etc/resolv.conf
	nameserver 192.168.8.1
----------
Sometimes you'll need to create and attach a shared disk to your image.
I needed this to copy install files onto the image, but after the install
I don't need or want all that extra disk.  Instructions below indicate
how to achieve this.

You only need to run fdisk and mkfs once per shared disk, don't run it each time you mount 
the shared image to one VM or another one.


Create a shared disk in OVM Manager:
	Resources > Shared Virtual Disks > Create Shared Virtual Disk
	
Attach/Detach Shared Virtual Disk
	<vm_name_link> > Storage > Attach/Detach Shared Virtual Disk
	Specify the details required.  Eventually you'll have a device name like: xvdc


Inside the running VM do the following steps.  Run fdisk with the device:
	# fdisk /dev/xvdc


You'll get some error messages saying you don't have a valid partition table. 
Create a new partition, 
	'n', 'p', '1', <enter>, <enter>, 't', '8e' 'w'.

Format the file system
	# mkfs -t ext3 /dev/xvdc
	
Create a mount point
	# mkdir /u02

If you want this disk to be mounted each time the server is rebooted add it to your /etc/fstab.
If you want to manually mount it and not have it be mounted on reboots, just mount it with the 
command below

Add it to /etc/fstab
	[root@db11g u02]# cat /etc/fstab
	/dev/xvdc		/u02			ext3	defaults	1 2
	
	Issue the mount all command:
	[root@db11g u02]# mount -a

-OR-
	
You can mount the disk with the following command: (format: mount <device> <directory>)
	# mount /dev/xvdc /u02
	
	
To no longer have the volume be part of this image just remove
from /etc/fstab and reboot.
