{toc}


http://iprequest.oraclecorp.com/


h1. Physical Machines

|| Connection Info \\ || Physical Location / Owner \\ || IP Address \\ || Status ||
| Host: *vl-vmsrv1.hk.oracle.com*\\
Win 2003 Server 64 bit \\
RAM: 8 GB, Quad Core&nbsp; \\
username/password: Administrator/welcome1 \\
 \\
\\ | Hong Kong \\
One Pacific Place \\
fenton.travers@oracle.com \\ | 10.179.252.28 | operational |
| Host: *vl-vmsrv2.hk.oracle.com* \\
Win 2003 Server 64 bit \\
RAM: 8 GB, Dual Core&nbsp; \\
username/password: Administrator/welcome1 \\ | Hong Kong \\
One Pacific Place \\
fenton.travers@oracle.com \\ | 10.179.252.33 | operational |
| Host: *vl-vmsrv3.hk.oracle.com* \\ \\ | Hong Kong \\
One Pacific Place \\
fenton.travers@oracle.com | 10.179.252.36 | not used \\ |
When moving servers around, decomissioning, etc...
* copy all running vm's over
* copy any seed vm's over

h1. Seed Virtual Machines

These are VM's, that can be copied to build new running virtual machines, or solutions.&nbsp; They are setup with DHCP, so that if you copy and start them up you won't have an IP clash.
|| Name || Comments \\ || Location \\ ||
| linux | Based off the Oracle VM Template for Oracle Enterprise Linux 5 Update 2 \\
root passwd: welcome1 \\
Location: /OVS/seed_pool/linux \\
Hosted on vl-vmsrv2 \\ | vl-vmsrv2:/OVS/seed_pool/linux \\
vl-vmsrv3:/OVS/seed_pool/linux \\ |
* Change IP Address from DHCP to Static

Once you copy this seed machine you should change it's address from dhcp to a static ip address that you acquired from the link above (usually 2 days turn around).&nbsp; Follow [this link to change to a static IP address|http://wiki.oracle.com/page/static+ip+address+on+OEL].
* Add a disk for more disk space

Once you've got your machine copied and started up you'll need to add an extra disk.&nbsp; Follow [these instructions for adding a new disk|http://wiki.oracle.com/page/VM+Cheat+Sheet].

h1. Virtual Machines


h4. All Hosts

* Network: 10.179.252.0, Netmask: 255.255.255.0, Default Gateway: 10.179.252.1
* DNS Servers: 10.179.248.12, 146.56.237.50, 140.83.70.155
* Default Domain: hk.oracle.com
* Go to [this page|http://iprequest.oraclecorp.com/] to request additional *Static IP* addresses.
* All running VM's are located in the directory: */OVS/running_pool*

|| Name \\ || Host Name \\ || Status || IP Address \\ || Hosted On \\ || Relies On \\ || Contact Owner \\ || Status / Comments \\ ||
| ucm1 | vl-ucm1 \\ | running | 10.179.252.30 | vl-vmsrv2 | \\ | Fenton Travers \\ | Hong Kong Government Efficiency Unit POC - ECM Base 7 VM \\ |
| db1 | vl-db1 \\ | deleted | 10.179.252.29 | vl-vmsrv2 | none | Fenton Travers \\ | Heavily Used Production Style \\ |
| xps | xps \\ | deleted | 10.179.252.34 | vl-vmsrv2 | vl-db1 | Fenton Travers \\ | Too slow.&nbsp; Intention was to use for production but it is too slow. The network connection is too slow...get throttled internally. \\ |
| wlp1 | vl-wlp1 \\ | running | 10.179.252.31 | vl-vmsrv1 | none | John Wheeler \\ | Hong Kong Government Efficiency Unit POC - Web Center |
| linux1 | linux1 | deleted | 10.179.252.32 | vl-vmsrv2 \\ | vl-db1 | Fenton Travers \\ | Should be renamed to ImageMagick \\ |
| wciwcm1 | vl-wciwcm1 | | 10.179.252.35 | vl-vmsrv2 | vl-db1 | Fenton Travers, James Williams \\ | Not Setup \\ |
| alm \\ | alm \\ | | 10.179.252.39 | vl-vmsrv2 \\ | \\ | Fenton Travers, Byungwook Cho \\ | Not setup \\ |
| youtube \\ | | | 10.179.252.38 | vl-vmsrv2 \\ | | Fenton Travers \\ | Not Setup \\ |
| ipm \\ | | | 10.179.252.41 | | | | Not setup |
| wcfs \\ | | | 10.179.252.40 | | | | Not setup |
| urmses | vl-urmses \\ | | 10.179.252.42 | | | | Not setup |
| autovue \\ | vl-autovue | | 10.179.252.37 | | | | Not setup |
| | | | | | | | |

h1. Virtual Machine Details


h3. VM: RAC1

Please see [this page|virtual lab - rac1] as this has quite a bit of info associated with it.

h3. VM: wlp1

WLP host server has been set up on vl-wlp1.hk.oracle.com under /opt/wlp103. A test domain has been created and may be accessed via the WebLogic Server console at: [http://vl-wlp1.hk.oracle.com:7001/console&nbsp]; (username = weblogic, pwd = weblogic).

Here are the notes to: [Install Oracle WLP|http://wiki.oracle.com/page/Install+Oracle+WLP].

h3. VM: urmses

awaiting ip address assignment. in mean time can copy over seed vm.

h3. VM: ALM

Waiting on IP address from GIT.&nbsp; Once we have that, the machine will be setup and connection information provided here.

h3. VM: WCIWCM1

Currently needs to have UCM + WCM + WCI installed.

h3. VM: UCM1

ucm unix user/password: stellent/welcome1&nbsp;&nbsp;

h3. VM: linux1

ucm unix user/password: stellent/welcome1
|| Instance || Details || Comments \\ ||
| idc \\ | dir: /u01/oracle/ucm \\
[http://linux1.hk.oracle.com/idc/] \\
Version: [10.1.3.3.3| http://olympus.stellent.com/xpedio/idcplg?IdcService=DOC_INFO&dID=44960&dDocName=OLY_061667] \\ | \\ |
| ibr \\ | dir: /u01/oracle/ibr \\
[http://linux1.hk.oracle.com/ibr/] \\ | \\ |
DAM is installed here, we should move this to a different VM name like ImageMagick, not Linux1, not very descriptive\!&nbsp; Here are the install instructions for DAM: [Digital Asset Manager Install Instructions|http://wiki.oracle.com/page/Digital+Asset+Manager+Install+Instructions]

h3. VM: xps

ucm unix user/password: stellent/welcome1
|| Instance || Details || Comments \\ ||
| xps \\ | dir: /u01/oracle/ucm/server \\
[http://vl-ucm1.hk.oracle.com/idc/] \\
Version: [10.1.3.3.3| http://olympus.stellent.com/xpedio/idcplg?IdcService=DOC_INFO&dID=44960&dDocName=OLY_061667] \\ | This is a production instance used to host Oracle Consulting Expert Services Offerings \\ |
| damtest \\ | dir: /u02/oracle/ucm2/server \\
[http://xps.hk.oracle.com/damtest/] \\
Version:&nbsp; [10.1.3.3.3| http://olympus.stellent.com/xpedio/idcplg?IdcService=DOC_INFO&dID=44960&dDocName=OLY_061667] \\ | This instance is to try to get the latest version of content server 10.1.3.3.3. to work with IBR. \\ |

h3. VM: db1

username/password: root/welcome1

oracle sid: orcl

db: username/password = system/welcome1
|| User Name \\ || Used By Virtual Machine \\ || UCM Instance \\ ||
| idc_dam2_user | linux1 | fox_ucm |
| ucm3 | ucm1 \\ | idc3 |
| idc_user | ucm1 \\ | idc |
| idc_dam_test_user | xps | damtest |
| xps_user | xps | idc |
| idc_cisdi_user | ucm1 | cisdi \\ |