In Japan, the place was completely devastated after WWII including the
banking sector.  The central banks re-capitalized the banking sector
and used a system called 'window guidance', which basically instructed
the banks how much and to whom to lend.  This led to an economic
miracle, low unemployment, and a large trade surplus.  In the 80's at
the behest of lobbying

80's era of financial deregulation in industrialized world.  Tadashi
Sasaki, former governor of BoJ, called for a 5 year plan

Haruo Maekawa, former BoJ governor, 10 year economic reform package,
the report read like a wish list from us trade negotiators.

Calls for administrative reform, abolistion of bureaucratic powers,
the goal was the transformation of the entire body politic.  The
abolition of the war economy system.  Introduction of a US style free
market economy.  Called for a wholesale revolution of all parts of the
Japanese Economic, political and social system.

The commision proposed that monetary policy should be used to promote
a historic crisis sufficient large to overcome the vested interests of
the ministry of finance, politicians and corporate japan.

The crisis is the only thing that will cause the citizens and interest
groups of the need for change.  Best way to do it is to create a
bubble.  BoJ significantly increased window guidance loan quotas.
Average yearly loan growth quotas were 15% in the late 1980s.  Young
people in their 20s and 30s on modest salaries were able to buy second
and third homes.

The credit boom caused a boom in the Real Estate and Stock Market.
1985-1989 stocks rose 240% & land prices 245%.  By the end of the 80s
the garden surrounding the imperial palace in central tokyo was worth
as much as the entire state of California.

In 1989, 26th governor, Yasushi Mieno, he declared he was against this
silly monetary policy and would end easy capital for real estate.  He
was deputy governor during the bubble era, he was in charge of
creating the bubble.

All of a sudden, land and asset prices stopped rising. 1990 alone
stock market dropped by 32%.  July 1991, window guidance was
abolished.  This took the window offices at the BoJ by surprise
themselves! Bankers were left helpless, they didn't know how to make
their lending plans anymore.  When the banks realized that the
majority of the 99 billion yen loans would go sour, they stopped
lending to speculators, but also restricted loans to everyone else.

5 million japanese lost their jobs and did not find employment
elsewhere.  Suicide became leading cause of death for men between ages
20 and 44.  1990-2003 212,000 companies went bankrupt.  In the same
period the stock market had collapsed by 80%.  Land prices fell by up
to 84%.

Ministry of Finance (MoF), believing interest rates were the main
policy tool put pressure on the BoJ to lower interest rates.  Until
rate reached 0.1%.

MoF asked BoJ to sell large amounts of yen and buy US Treasuries so
exchange rate of yen would fall and exports would pickup. 

BoJ steriling their intervention.  MoF tells BoJ to buy 20 bn of US
Treasuries, which means they are taking the money from the economy to
fund the purchase.  Sterilized forex intervention doesn't work, thats
why the Yen remained strong.

Central bank can withdraw money from economy by selling its assets,
just as it can inject money into the economy by buying assets.

Gov't between 92->02 had 10 stimulation packages worth 146 Trillion
Yen.  Fund raising done through the bond market, thereby taking the
same money out of the economy.  No increase in purchasing power, so
gov't intervention couldn't have an impact.  By 2011, Japans gov't
debt = 230% of GDP.  The MoF was running out of options.  People
started blaming MoF for the recession and that it was caused by Japans
economic system.

This no loan growth = no economic growth = no loan growth catch 22 can
be fixed by the BoJ by printing money.  Central Bank could buy all bad
debts at face value, then Japan would have the strongest banks in the
world.   This is what the BoJ did after the war.

Tax money was used to recapitalize banks, but tax payers weren't
responsible for the problem with the banks, therefore creating a
moral hazard.

BoJ could have fixed the whole thing by simply buying assets, like
buying real estate and converted it into public parks.  Or they could
have done QE.  Despite having these options, BoJ refused at every
stage to adopt policies that woudl have resolved the crisis.  BoJ was
prolonging the crisis to get Structural Changes.  BoJ defied calles
from finance minister and Prime Minister.  At times they actively
reduced the money in circulation which actually worsened the
recession.  BoJ would continually blame problem the economic
structure. 

The MoF was made to wear the blame of the crisis, and the BoJ, in 1998
was cut free of the MoF and put in charge of Monetary Policy.  In 2001
Junichiro Koizumi, became PM, compared to Margaret Thatcher.  His
policy = no recovery without structural reform.  Japan started to
shift its economy to a US style market economy, meaning moving the
center of the economy from banks to stock market.  To entice
depositors to pull their money out of banks and into the risky stock
market, reformers withdrew the guarantee on all bank deposits, while
creating tax incentives for stock investments.  As US style
shareholder capitalism spread, unemployement rose significantly,
income and wealth dispairity rose, as did suicide and incidents of
violent crime.  Then in 2002 BoJ strengthened its efforts to worsen
banks balance sheets and force them to foreclose on their borrowers.
This allowed the gov't to nationalize the banks.  This wouldn't
benefit the japanese, rather the US vulture funds specializing in the
purchasing of distressed assets.

Their goals were to: destroy the MoF, get independence for the BoJ,
engineer deep structural changes in the economy: shifting from
manufacturing to services, opening up, deregulating, liberalizing,
privitize the whole lot.

Todays US economy is characterized by fierce competition, agressive
hiring and firing, take over battles between large corporations, few
bureaucratic controls, strong shareholders who demand high dividends
and corporate funding from the markets not banks.  Throughout the post
war era japans economy had been the opposite.  Highly regulated,
cartels limiting competition, bank financing cross shareholding
reducing shareholder power, no takeovers, frozen labour market with
lifetime employment and seniority pay.  It was claimed to end
recession it was necessary to move from welfare capitalism to
shareholder capitalism.  Why would a country that ran a significant
and consistent trade balance need to change its economic system to
become more competitive?! 

--------------------------------------------------------------------

Thank you KK for your response.

I see the interview you are talking about, Keiser definitely doesn't
destroy Richard Werner with any point.  He defintely talks over him
and when Werner wants to explain, he cuts him off for time.

Back to the Japan point.  Japans welfare economy with 'window
guidance' was responsible for an economic miracle.  Why would a
country that ran a significant and consistent trade balance need to
change its economic system to become more competitive?  Well the
answer is it doesn't.  However the private central bankers cabal,
wants wealth to be transfered to their 1%, so they needed to change
the system.

You went from a system that was highly regulated, had cartels limiting
competition, bank financing cross shareholding reducing shareholder
power, no takeovers, frozen labour market with lifetime employment and
seniority pay; to a system characterized by fierce competition, agressive
hiring and firing, take over battles between large corporations, few
bureaucratic controls, strong shareholders who demand high dividends
and corporate funding from the markets not banks.

I fail to see how this is a better system?  The system didn't evolve
this way, the BoJ wanted this and so they engineered the crisis.  They
created the bubble, and then tightened monetary policy afterwards
prolonging the crisis until they could finagle all the concessions
they sought, including the freeing of the BoJ from MoF legal
oversight.

There is a clear difference, I think, between financing GDP related
activities versus asset inflation.  Going back to your housing
example, finance builders who will be building net new homes, or
upgrade them.  Don't finance people who are simply speculating.

Wow, long article on fractional reserve banking, kuddos!  I understood
that fractional reserve banking is a myth, and that banks create
credit as they wish, having nothing to do with some
