

forest management licences:

These licences were a new form of tenure in the forests of British
Columbia introduced in 1948 based on the 1944 recommendations of the
Sloan Commission. Large companies were given cutting rights over Crown
land in perpetuity and in exchange were responsible for forest
management, construction of access roads and fire fighting. The goal
was to provide a sustained yield to supply mills over the long term by
giving the licence holder a long term interest in the productivity of
the land.[2]:9 Forest management licences were extremely
valuable. There were accusations that companies made huge profits
selling shares issued after a licence was granted before a single tree
had been cut.[2]:49[4] E.P. Taylor's Argus Corporation, which
incorporated British Columbia Forest Products to run its BC forest
operations in 1946, had been turned down for a forest management
licence in 1948. After he became the cabinet minister in charge of
granting forest management licences, Sommers, who was then in awkward
financial circumstances personally, had meetings with Taylor and the
management of Argus at which BCFP sought a licence. Taylor, BC premier
W.A.C. Bennett and Sommers met at the Empress Hotel in January
1955. Afterwards, Bennett directed Sommers to make the deal. The
result was that BCFP was granted FML #22 which covered 250,000 acres
(1,000 km2) between Port Renfrew and Estevan Point along the west
coast of Vancouver Island.[2]:43 (source:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Sommers)

