"home":../index.html > "Training":index.html > HTML 5

p(toc). Table of Contents

{toc}

Great web page about HTML5: http://apirocks.com/html5/html5.html

h1. Canvas

The following is boiler plate code to simply load up an image named: @blue.jpg@ into the canvas

<filelocation> sample.html

bc. 
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Canvas tutorial</title>
	<script type="text/javascript" src="canvas.js"></script>
    <style type="text/css">
      canvas { border: 1px solid black; }
    </style>
  </head>
  <body onload="draw();">
    <canvas id="tutorial" width="300" height="300"></canvas>
  </body>
</html>

<filelocation> canvas.js

bc. 
function draw(){
  var canvas = document.getElementById('tutorial');
  if (canvas.getContext){
    var ctx = canvas.getContext('2d');
	var img = new Image();
	img.onload = function(){
          ctx.drawImage(img,0,0);
    }
	img.src = "blue.jpg";
  }
}

h1. Geolocation

"Reference":http://dev.w3.org/geo/api/spec-source.html

bc. <script>
    function showMap(position) {
      alert( "Latitude: " + position.coords.latitude + "\nLongitude: " + position.coords.longitude );
    }
    navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition(showMap);
</script>

h1. Local Storage

This storage only lasts for the user session period.  @localStorage@ is the HTML5 object(API) to operate on.

bc. localStorage.setItem(key, value);
localStorage.getItem(key);
localStorage.removeItem(key);
localStorage.length;  // tells you how long the array is
localStorage.key(index);  // gets you the key at a given integer index position

h1. Video

h2. Play Video

"Good reference":https://developer.mozilla.org/En/Using_audio_and_video_in_Firefox

bc. <video src="TestVideo.ogg" controls/>  

h2. Record Video

following is not tested and I don't think works...

bc. <input type=ÓfileÓ accept=Óvideo/*Ó/>.

h1. Audio

h2. Play Audio

"Reference":https://developer.mozilla.org/En/HTML/Element/Audio

bc. <audio src="TestSong.ogg" autoplay/>

h2. Record Audio

following is not tested and I don't think works...

bc. <input type=ÓfileÓ accept=Óaudio/*Ó/>

h1. Firefogg

You can use the javascript firefogg api to "simultaneously upload and transcode to ogg":http://www.firefogg.org/dev/chunk_post_example.html format.