"home":../../index.html > "jeos":../index.html > "content":index.html > UCM

p(toc). Table of Contents

{toc}

h1. Daily Use

h2. Start stop instruction:

service stellent { start | stop }


h1. Installation 

h2. OVM Template Info

This tutorial uses:
Template: System: 2048, Mem: 512, Swap: 512
OS: OEL5U3 32bit

h3. Attach shared disk

bc. 
[root@hp4 running_pool]# xm block-attach ucm2 file:/OVS/sharedDisk/data.img xvdb w
[root@ucm2 ~]# mkdir /u02; mount /dev/xvdb /u02

Version: Content Management System Server. Version 10.1.3.3.3 (080807), not patched.

h3. Installing a webserver

bc. 
	[root@ucm1 u01]# useradd stellent; chmod 777 /u01; yum install -y httpd; chkconfig --level 345 httpd on; service httpd start; 

h3. Create the database tables.

Using the DB the UCM will pointing to.
Run sqlplus (or SQL developer) and Create the database tables with the following commands.
	
bc. 
create temporary tablespace idc2_temp tempfile '/u01/app/oracle/oradata/orcl/idc2_temp.dbf' SIZE 100M REUSE AUTOEXTEND ON NEXT 5120K MAXSIZE UNLIMITED;
create tablespace idc2_sys datafile '/u01/app/oracle/oradata/orcl/idc2_sys.dbf' size 100M reuse autoextend on next 5120k maxsize unlimited;
create USER idc2_user IDENTIFIED by idc2_user temporary tablespace idc2_temp default tablespace idc2_sys quota unlimited on idc2_sys;
grant connect, resource to idc2_user;

Install product as stellent user

bc. 
	[root@ucm1 linux64]# su - stellent
	[stellent@ucm1 ~]$ /u02/content/ContentServer_Linux_10gR3_20080807/UCM/ContentServer/linux/

Installer

To run Installer from inside the directory:
	
bc. [stellent@ucmel linux]$ ./Installer

Notes are only made where choices other than the default were specified.

* Content Server Installation Directory
Please enter the full pathname to the installation directory.

bc. Content Server Core Folder [/oracle/ucm/server]:/u01/ucm

* Enter the location of an executable to start your web browser. This browser will be used to
display the online help.

bc. Web Browser Path []:/bin/bash

Remove attached disk:

bc.	[root@hp4 running_pool]# xm block-remove ucm2 file:/OVS/sharedDisk/data.img xvdb w

For Reference, these are all the settings that were chosen for the install.

bc. 
	Review install settings. . .
	Content Server Core Folder: /u01/ucm
	Java virtual machine: Sun Java 1.6.0 JDK
	Content Server Native Vault Folder: /u01/ucm/vault/
	Content Server Weblayout Folder: /u01/ucm/weblayout/
	Proxy authentication through another server: no
	Install admin server: yes
	Web Browser Path: /bin/bash
	Content Server System locale: English-US
	Content Server Port: 4444
	Admin Server Port: 4440
	Incoming connection address filter: 127.0.0.1
	Web Server Relative Root: /idc/
	Company Mail Server: mail
	Administrator E-Mail Address: sysadmin@mail
	Web Server HTTP Address: ucm2
	Server Instance Name: ucm2
	Server Instance Label: ucm2
	Server Description: Content Server idc
	Web Server: Apache
	Content Server Database: Oracle
	Manually configure JDBC settings for this database: false
	Oracle Server Hostname: db
	Oracle Listener Port Number: 1521
	Oracle User: idc2_user
	Oracle Password: S8IfZ6qBKAZjHGyfQWGsIQUiMMHmlggzzS1lRQTTn6s=
	Oracle Instance Name: xe
	Configure the JVM to find the JDBC driver in a specific jar file: false
	Attempt to create database tables: yes
	Components: ContentFolios,Folders_g,LinkManager8,OracleTextSearch,ThreadedDiscussions
	
h3. Update the apache config file

bc..	[root@ucm1 u01]# vi /etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf
	
LoadModule IdcApacheAuth /u01/ucm/shared/os/linux/lib/IdcApache22Auth.so

IdcUserDB idc /u01/ucm/data/users/userdb.txt

Alias /idc /u01/ucm/weblayout

<Location /idc>
 DirectoryIndex portal.htm
 IdcSecurity idc
 Allow from all
</Location>

<Location />
 IdcSecurity idc
</Location>

p. Restart webserver so changes take effect

bc. 
	[root@ucm1 u01]# service httpd restart
	Stopping httpd:                                            [FAILED]
	Starting httpd:                                            [  OK  ]

h3. Create the startup script

bc.. 
	[root@ucm1 etc]# cat > /etc/init.d/stellent
#!/bin/bash
#
#
# chkconfig: 35 80 30
# description: Content Server startup script

# Source function library.

. /etc/rc.d/init.d/functions

STELLENT_OWNER="stellent"
STELLENT_HOME="/u01/ucm/"

start() {
	su - $STELLENT_OWNER -c "$STELLENT_HOME/etc/idcserver_start"
	su - $STELLENT_OWNER -c "$STELLENT_HOME/admin/etc/idcadmin_start"
}
stop() {
	su - $STELLENT_OWNER -c "$STELLENT_HOME/etc/idcserver_stop"
	su - $STELLENT_OWNER -c "$STELLENT_HOME/admin/etc/idcadmin_stop"
}
restart() {
	stop
	start
}
case "$1" in
start)
	start
;;
stop)
	stop
;;
restart)
	restart
;;
*)
echo $"Usage: $0 {start|stop|restart}"
esac

p. Now add the script to the auto start mechanisms

bc. 	[root@ucm1 init.d]# chmod 750 /etc/init.d/stellent; chkconfig --add stellent --level 0356;


h2. Patch Content Server

First we should patch this server.  Patching:

1st
---
Applied: CS10gR35UpdateBundle-20090707-11.zip

install the following with component manager:
	/vm/install files/1st/CS10gR35UpdateBundle-20090707-11.zip

	Accept all defaults.

came from: V17289-01_UCM_10gPatchUpdateBundle, edelivery



--------------
2nd
---

unzip CS10gR34ContentAccessUpdate-20090505-4.zip
use component ContentAccess-linux.zip

Content Access: CS10gR34ContentAccessUpdate-20090505-4
from edelivery: V17289-01_UCM_10gPatchUpdateBundle

Component version before applied patch:

	ContentAccess-linux
	080222 (build $Rev: 64037 $)

	Feature Extensions:ContentAccess:10gR3-8.1.9
	Classpath:
	Libpath:

Component version after applied patch:
	ContentAccess-linux
	2009_04_01 (build $Rev: 72204 $) br-10g-10.1.3.4-release
	
	Feature Extensions:ContentAccess:10gR3-8.3.0
	Classpath:
	Libpath:

There is a note in the readme

	The new version of Content Access requires that Microsoft Visual C++ libraries
	are installed. The package for this can be downloaded from
	www.microsoft.com/downloads, search for "vcredist_x86.exe". The recommended
	package is "Visual C++ 2005 SP1 Redistributable Package (x86)". ***

However, I'm running linux so I don't see how this could work, so haven't installed
any vcredist_x86.exe files anywhere.


-------------
3rd
----
stop ucm, admin, and httpd

	[stellent@ucm2 etc]$ su -
	[root@ucm2 ~]# service httpd stop              
	[root@ucm2 ~]# service stellent stop
	[root@ucm2 ucm]# su - stellent
	[stellent@ucm2 etc]$ cd /u01/ucm

\\192.168.9.105\Volume_2\vm\xen\jeos\install_files\content\patched_ucm

Extract server-linux-shared.zip into the ucm folder... 
	[stellent@ucm2 ucm]$ unzip server-linux-shared.zip 
	[stellent@ucm2 ucm]$ chmod -R 755 shared/os

start ( ucm, admin, and httpd ) back up.
	[root@ucm4 ucm]# service stellent start
	[root@ucm4 ucm]# service httpd start

\/ \/ \/ \/ \/ \/ \/ \/ Do not install this \/ \/ \/ \/ \/ \/ \/ \/

Tried installing NativeOsUtils, but it caused the server to not be able
to install site studio component afterwards so reverted to old vm image
and started again without updating the NativeOsUtils.

After component install: NativeOsUtils-linux64.zip
	NativeOsUtils
	090415 (build $Rev: 73693 $)
		
	Feature Extensions:NativeOsUtils
	Classpath: $COMPONENT_DIR/nativeosutils.jar
	Libpath: $COMPONENT_DIR/lib/$PLATFORM/7.1.4.1

/\ /\ /\ /\ /\ /\ /\ /\ Do not install this /\ /\ /\ /\ /\ /\ /\ /\
----------------------------------------------
Some general notes:
-------------------
General UCM Notes
-----------------

-----------------------------
==> Changing IP address of OVM
The are instructions for changing the IP address of the UCM instance.

	[root@ucm2 etc]# vi /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0

Update the line like:

	IPADDR=192.168.8.118

to have the IP address you want.  Restart the server.

-----------------------------

If you want to modify the web server name also do it in these places:

Often you need to do this if the component manager won't let you 'install'
a new component (notice it is pointing to an invalid webserver name)

	config/config.cfg
	admin/data/servers/idc/server.hda
	admin/data/servers/servers.hda
	admin/config/config.cfg




h2. Adding desktop integration

* Open the content server homepage in a  browser. Example: http://orcleucm/idc
*  On the server install the Folders.zip component. In the component manage, ensure Folder_g component is installed. This component should be selected during the first time UCM install. If the component is not there:
** Run the installer again chose update, and select Folder_g:

@[stellent@oracleucm linux]$ ./Installer@

@Select installation type from the list.@
        @*1. Install new server@
         @2. Update a server@
@Choice? 2@

@Content Server Installation Directory@

@Please enter the full pathname to the installation directory.@
@Content Server Core Folder [/oracle/ucm/server]:/u01/ucm@


@Select components to install.@
         @1. ContentFolios: Collect related items in folios@
         @2. Folders_g: Organize content into hierarchical folders@
        @3. LinkManager8: Hypertext link management support@
         @4. OracleTextSearch: External Oracle 11g database as search indexer support@
         @5. ThreadedDiscussions: Threaded discussion management@
@Enter numbers separated by commas to toggle, 0 to unselect all, F to finish: 2@

*  Install the DesktopIntegrationSuite.zip component
*  On the content server goto folder admin and set the default metadata
*  Install the setup.exe on the machine you want to include desktop integration on

-------------------------------------------------
Full Text Search:
	required components:
		OracleTextSearch: 2009_05_28 (build 32) 10.1.3.5-release

	change config.cfg: database.fulltext
SearchIndexerEngineName=DATABASE.FULLTEXT	
	

	run the following sql script as the content server db user:
	[Install_Dir]/database/oracle/admin/batchsnippets.sql
	
	run stellentrole.sql
	
As the system db user:
	grant stellent_role to user
	grant unlimited tablespace to the user

May need to create this index as wel:
	CREATE INDEX idxFULLTEXT ON idc2_user.idccoll2(dDocFullText) INDEXTYPE IS CTXSYS.CONTEXT PARAMETERS ('SYNC (ON COMMIT)')

-------------------------------------------------
Adding Oracle Text as the search engine:
doco:
http://olympus.stellent.com/xpedio/groups/pubs/documents/documentation/admin_oracletextsearch_10g.pdf

run scripts: 

$ sqlplus system/welcome1
SQL> @/opt/oracle/ucm/database/oracle/admin/contentserverrole.sql


sqlplus <dbauser> @contentserverrole.sql

$ sqlplus ucm_db_user/welcome1

SQL> @/opt/oracle/ucm/database/oracle/admin/batchsnippet.sql

SQL> exit


3.	Full-Text Search.  To configure the database to enable Full-Text Searching for Content Server,
 run the following scripts as the UCM database user:
[OracleTextSearch_Component]\scripts\contentprocedures.sql
(Where the latest OracleTextSearch component can be found in the p6907073_101333_Generic.zip file. 
 See the Install Media section for more information)
 
h1. Remote debug content server
 
put this in the <server>/bin/intradoc.cfg file

bc. JAVA_OPTIONS=-Xdebug -Xnoagent -Xrunjdwp:transport=dt_socket,address=8000,server=y,suspend=n

NOTE: both the normal server and the admin server look at this file when starting up and use it... So if you try to startup up both the regular server and the admin server, they'll both try to open up port 8000 for debugging...which will lead to port overuse... You therefore would need to comment out this line when starting up the admin server.

