"<< Home":../../index.html

h1. Table of Contents

{toc}

h1. Overview

The portal is connected to the UCM(Universal Content Management) to allow the WYSIWIG(What You See Is What You Get) contribution of content and then the display of that same content back into the Portal.  This functionality is called: "In Context Contribution".  This is a strong selling point of Web Content Management, and is a primary functionality desired by MOHE(Ministry of Higher Education).

h1. Types of Contribution Pages

There are two main types of contribution pages.  The first type is a bulleted listing.  The second type is a free-form WYSIWIG edit contribution page.

h2. Bulleted List

The bulleted list allows for three different type of items to be contributed.

# A News Story or Announcement
# A document (PDF, DOC, XLS, etc..)
# A link (Internal or External)

h3. Announcement

When a user contributes a news story or announcement, they are prompted to enter a Title, a Description and the Body of the announcement.  This then leads to two pages being modified/created.  The first page that is modified is the listing page where the user contributed the article.  An additional bullet point is added.  The bullet point becomes a link to the second page that gets created.  This second page is the full announcement, showing the body as well as the other two items.

h3. Documents

Any type of document can also be added.  In this case the Title metadata field is used to provide the information that will be on the bulleted list page.  When the user clicks on the document, a download dialogue will be displayed where they can choose to download the file.

h3. Links

Links can be internal or external.  The title contribution field will be used for the bulleted list. 

h1. Searching Contributed Content

For content that is contributed it actually is stored as XML(Extensible Markup Language) in the content server.  A separate page then takes the content and applys a template to it to format it.  By default, searching the content server for these pages will simply return the XML pages which don't make sense as a search result.  To deal with this complexity a metadata field: @SearchTarget@ has been created.  The portal location where this item should be viewed is stored in this URL.  The template to convert from XML to HTML is also specified here.

h1. Contribution Default Metadata

When a contribution area is setup on the portal, we configure default metadata that will get applied to any content that is checked into that region.  The default metadatas' that we apply at the moment are: 

bc. 
xSearchTarget
xWFApprover
xWFReviewer
xWFEscalation

Please see the write up on workflow to understand the meaning and purpose of the last three metadata fields.

h1. Glossary

{glossary}