"<< Home":../../index.html

h1. Table of Contents

{toc}

h1. Workflow on the UCM(Universal Content Managment) side

This document discusses the Workflow design.

h2. Details

The workflow is setup as a three step workflow.  Workflow gets triggered whenever an item is added to the content server and the metadata field: _xWorkflow_ is set to a value of _yes_.  The workflow has three required steps and one exception handling step.

h2. Steps

# Contributor
# Reviewer
# Approver
# Escalation (Exception Step)

The @Contributor@ step is to allow contributors time to work on their content and when they are finally ready to have the reviewer approve it, they release it from that step.  This is a system required step.

The second step: @Reviewer@ is specified by the username set in the metadata field: _xWFReviewer_.  If the content item sits in this step for more than three days the item will be moved to the Escalation step.  The user who will be required to approve here is identified in the _xWFEscalation_ metadata field.

The third standard step is the: @approver@ step.  The user who is required to approve at this step is identified in the _xWFApprover_ metadata field.  This step has the same exception conditions as the @Reviewer@ step with a timeout after 3 days.

h2. Exception Flow

If an item goes into the exception step from the Review Step, when it returns it will go into the Approver step.  If either the Approver or Reviewer is not specified then their step will be skipped.  As such, it is important that at least one of the reviewer/approver fields be set or if both are not set the item will bypass all workflows.

h2. Email Notificaiton

All users will be sent email notifications when a content item falls into their worklist.  The email will contain two links.  One link will point to the users worklist queue, the other link will point to the item in it's location on the portal.  This way the user can quickly see the item on the portal, then go to their worklist to approve/reject it.

h1. Workflow on the Portal side

The workflow has a custom portlet built that is the task list for a given user.  They can approve or reject the item directly from here.  This screen will also have a link so they can see the item in the context of the portal, this helps them understand not only what is being approved, but where it will end up after approval.  When a user rejects a workflow item it will provide the person rejecting with the opportunity to provide comments as to why the item is being rejected.

h1. Glossary

{glossary}
 