"home":../index.html > "training":index.html > Oracle VM

p(toc). Table of Contents

{toc}

"Reference":http://www.techotopia.com/index.php/Managing_Xen_using_the_xm_Command-line_Tool

h1. XM Commands

* List which virtual machines are running right now.

bc. # xm list

* Start the vm. By convention we will always have a file called vm.cfg

bc. # xm create vm.cfg

* Kill the power to vm: vm01, i.e. a hard shutdown

bc. # xm destroy vm01

* Monitors a host and its domains in real time

bc. # xm top 

* Send the vm: vm01 the shutdown command, like doing a shutdown inside the vm

bc. # xm shutdown vm01

* Current status of the guest operating system is written to disk and removed from system memory

bc. # xm suspend vm01

* restore vm01 (any time including after a host system reboot)

bc. # xm resume vm01

* Not Finished:

add a disk to a running vm: xm block-attach <Domain Id> <Backend Device> <Frontend Device> <Mode>. Domain Id is got from xm list command under the id column, 

bc. # xm block-attach 3 phy:/dev/sr0 /dev/xvda2 r

* Split / Join files

Sometime the files are too big to put on FAT32 thumbdrives. Use the split and cat commands here:

Split the file system.img into 3Gig chunks

bc. # split --bytes=3000m system.img

* Join up the files system.img.part1, system.img.part2, etc... into the file system.img

bc. # cat system.img.part* > system.img

* Make an extra Linux file system for your VM

Make a blank file 2 gigs large named stellent.img that will serve as our new disk

bc. # dd if=/dev/zero of=stellent.img bs=1M count=2048

Edit the configuration file (/etc/xen/vm03), like below, adding the second line, notice xvda goes to xvdb
disk = [ 'file:/OVS/running_pool/vm03/system.img,xvda,w', 'file:/OVS/running_pool/vm03/stellent.img,xvdb,w']

The above line may also look like, the following, in that case use hdb in place ov xvdb.
disk = [ 'file:/OVS/running_pool/ucm1/system.img,hda,w','file:/OVS/running_pool/ucm1/stellent.img,hdb,w' ]

(NOTE) don't think you can use 'hdc' (only a and b), so you can use a combo of hd and xvd!

The following instructions came from the following link, use it as a reference if these instructions don't make sense
http://www.linuxhomenetworking.com/wiki/index.php/Quick_HOWTO_:_Ch27_:_Expanding_Disk_Capacity#Expanding_Partitions_With_LVM

* Here we created a new device, /dev/xvdb. Now we start up the vm and run fdisk 

bc. # fdisk /dev/xvdb

You'll get some error messages saying you don't have a valid partition
table. Create a new partition, 'n', primary = 'p', partition number =
'1', default first and last cylinders.

List this partition table 'p' now and notice the Id type is 83 or
something. Change this to 8e. 't', '8e'. List the partition table 'p',
again, notice the new Id type is 8e. Save partition table 'w'.

* Create a physical volume from this device

bc. # pvcreate /dev/xvdb1

* Create the logical volume group from the physical device

bc. # vgcreate lvm-oracledb /dev/xvdb1

* Create the logical volume using 100% of the free space in the logical group lvm-oracledb

bc. # lvcreate -l 100%FREE lvm-oracledb -n lvm0

* Format the file system

bc. # mkfs -t ext3 /dev/lvm-oracledb/lvm0 

* Create a mount point

bc. # mkdir /oracledb

* Add the following to /etc/fstab to automatically mount the volume when the computer starts up

bc. /dev/lvm-oracledb/lvm0 /oracledb ext3 defaults 1 2

* Mount the volume

bc. # mount -a

DONE!!!

* Create a hot mounted ext3 disk

On the VM server do:

bc. 
dd if=/dev/zero of=disk2.img bs=1M count=2048
mkfs -t ext3 disk2.img
xm block-attach <vmName> file:/OVS/running_pool/disks/disk2.img xvdb w

Inside the vm do:

bc. 
mkdir /u02
mount -t ext3 /dev/xvdb /u02

To make the above persist for next reboot on vm server edit vm.cfg
adding a line like:

bc. 
disk = ['file:/OVS/running_pool/db11g/System.img,xvda,w','file:/OVS/running_pool/disks/disk2.img,xvdb,w']

On VM Guest add following line to: @/etc/fstab@

bc. /dev/xvdb		/u02			ext3	defaults	1 2




* Remove a Disk (LVM)

Remove /etc/fstab entry

bc. [root@vl-ucm1 ~]# vi /etc/fstab

Unmount the device, get device name with: lvdisplay

bc. # umount /dev/lvm-stellent/lvm0

OR

bc. 
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# ls /u01
downloads lost+found oracle
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# umount /u01
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# ls /u01
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# 

If you get: 

bc. 
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# umount /dev/lvm-stellent/lvm0
umount: /u01: device is busy

Find out what is using the device with: 

bc. 
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# fuser -m /dev/lvm-stellent/lvm0
/dev/lvm-stellent/lvm0: 3557m 3620m 3621m 3622m 3623m 3624m 3625m 3626m 3627m
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# ps auxw| grep 3557
root 3557 0.0 0.5 10856 3104 ? Ss 10:55 0:00 /usr/sbin/httpd
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# service httpd stop
Stopping httpd: [ OK ]
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# umount /dev/lvm-stellent/lvm0
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# df -h

And you should no longer see the disk with 'df'

Remove any entries from /etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf that refer to this disk.

use lvremove to remove the logical volume

bc. 
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# lvremove /dev/lvm-stellent/lvm0
Do you really want to remove active logical volume "lvm0"? [y/n]: y
Logical volume "lvm0" successfully removed

use lgdisplay and lgremove to remove logical group

bc. 
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# vgremove lvm-stellent
Volume group "lvm-stellent" successfully removed

use pvdisplay and pvremove to remove physical volume

bc. 
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# pvremove /dev/hdb1
Labels on physical volume "/dev/hdb1" successfully wiped

remove partition with fdisk /dev/hdb, 'd', enter, 'w' = write partition and exit

bc. 
# fdisk /dev/hdb

Remove the disk entry from the vm.cfg file, and restart the vm.

* Shrink a LVM

Just create a new disk, copy over contents and delete old volume.

open a terminal window

* SSH into the two Virtual Machine Servers

bc. ssh root@del & ssh root@x61

* See what vm's are available by looking in the /OVS/running_pool directories

bc. cd /OVS/running_pool; ls

* See what VM's are currently running:

bc. xm list

* Start a VM

bc. 
cd /OVS/running_pool/[vm_name]
xm create vm.cfg

example:

bc. 
cd /OVS/running_pool/proddb
xm create vm.cfg
	
* Find out hostnames by looking at dns server

bc. ssh root@dns (password = ovsroot)
cat ftzone

* Log into the VM itself

bc. ssh root@proddb (password = ovsroot)
	
* Shutdown a vm

bc. xm shutdown [vm_name]

example:

bc. xm shutdown proddb

* VM configuration file:

bc. /OVS/running_pool/[vm_name]/vm.cfg

h1. Block Attach/Detach

bc. 
[root@ovsoracle ~]# xm block-attach ucmel2 file:/OVS/sharedDisk/data.img xvdb w
[root@ovsoracle ~]# xm block-detach ucmel2 xvdb

h2. ATTACH DISK

notes: Attach a disk to a running instance, Attach the disk from the OVM Server

bc. 
xm block-attach <vm_name> file:<path_to_file> <device> w 
xm block-attach bpel file:/OVS/sharedDisk/data.img xvdb w

Inside the VM mount the device to a dir you created

bc. mount /dev/xvdb /u02

h2. REMOVE A DISK

notes: from a running instance

xm block-detach bpel xvdb

http://wiki.oracle.com/page/VM+Cheat+Sheet

==> Install a guest OS from comman line:
	> Create a file to store the guest OS into:
		[root@x61 ~]# cd /OVS/running_pool/
		[root@x61 running_pool]# mkdir rhdisk
		[root@x61 running_pool]# cd rhdisk
		[root@x61 rhdisk]# dd if=/dev/zero of=data.img bs=1M count=10240
	> Put iso image in either an ftp or http accessible location and have the URL for that.
	> Begin command line based install:
		[root@x61 ~]# virt-install
		Would you like a fully virtualized guest (yes or no)?  This will allow you to run unmodified operating systems. no
		What is the name of your virtual machine? rh46
		How much RAM should be allocated (in megabytes)? 1024
		What would you like to use as the disk (path)? /OVS/running_pool/rhdisk/system.img
	
		"What would you like to use as the disk (path)? - The path to the file or disk partition to be used to contain the guest operating system."
	
		Would you like to enable graphics support? (yes or no) yes
		What is the install location? http://192.168.8.108/~fentontravers/rhel/
	> VNC into this machine (the OVM Server is the host to use, the port: start with 0 and work your way up to find the right one.)  You
	may need to vnc into this from windows as I find the OSX one doesn't always work.
	> You may get some errors and get kicked out of VNC but just wait a bit and log back in and you should be okay.
	> Keep in mind the vm.cfg file will get stored at: /etc/xen/rh46 so move it to /OVS/running_pool/rh/vm.cfg


==> Create a new disk
	notes: the following creates a 2GB disk
# dd if=/dev/zero of=data.img bs=1M count=10240



==> To install Windows (or any OS from ISO, normally this will be an HVM install)
	> Upload an ISO to OVM Manager 
	> OVM Manager > Resources > ISO Files > Import
	> Put the ISO file somewhere that it can be accessed by either HTTP or FTP
	> OVM Manager > Virtual Machines > Create Virtual Machine > Create from installation media
	
==> To find out what VNC port an instance is using:
	> virsh dumpxml <domainID>
	
==> Use a specific VNC port: 'vncdisplay': 
vfb = [ 'type=vnc,vnclisten=0.0.0.0,vncdisplay=1,vncpassword=welcome1' ] 

# The backend listens on 127.0.0.1 port 5900+N by default, where N is 
# the domain ID.  You can override both address and N: 
# 
# vfb = [ 'type=vnc,vnclisten=127.0.0.1,vncdisplay=1' ] 
# 
# Or you can bind the first unused port above 5900: 
# 
# vfb = [ 'type=vnc,vnclisten=0.0.0.0,vnunused=1' ]


h1. Commands

http://www.techotopia.com/index.php/Managing_Xen_using_the_xm_Command-line_Tool
List which virtual machines are running right now.
# xm list

Start the vm. By convention we will always have a file called vm.cfg
# xm create vm.cfg

Kill the power to vm: vm01, i.e. a hard shutdown
# xm destroy vm01

Monitors a host and its domains in real time# xm top

Send the vm: vm01 the shutdown command, like doing a shutdown inside the vm
# xm shutdown vm01

Current status of the guest operating system is written to disk and removed from system memory
# xm suspend vm01

restore vm01 (any time including after a host system reboot)
# xm resume vm01

Not Finished:
add a disk to a running vm: xm block-attach <Domain Id> <Backend Device> <Frontend Device> <Mode>. Domain Id is got from xm list command under the id column,
# xm block-attach 3 phy:/dev/sr0 /dev/xvda2 r

Split / Join files
Sometime the files are too big to put on FAT32 thumbdrives. Use the split and cat commands here:

Split the file system.img into 3Gig chunks
# split --bytes=3000m system.img

Join up the files system.img.part1, system.img.part2, etc... into the file system.img
# cat system.img.part* > system.img

Make an extra Linux file system for your VM
Make a blank file 2 gigs large named stellent.img that will serve as our new disk
# dd if=/dev/zero of=stellent.img bs=1M count=2048

Edit the configuration file (/etc/xen/vm03), like below, adding the second line, notice xvda goes to xvdb
disk = [ 'file:/OVS/running_pool/vm03/system.img,xvda,w', 'file:/OVS/running_pool/vm03/stellent.img,xvdb,w']

The above line may also look like, the following, in that case use hdb in place ov xvdb.
disk = [ 'file:/OVS/running_pool/ucm1/system.img,hda,w','file:/OVS/running_pool/ucm1/stellent.img,hdb,w' ]

(NOTE) don't think you can use 'hdc' (only a and b), so you can use a combo of hd and xvd!

The following instructions came from the following link, use it as a reference if these instructions don't make sense
http://www.linuxhomenetworking.com/wiki/index.php/Quick_HOWTO_:_Ch27_:_Expanding_Disk_Capacity#Expanding_Partitions_With_LVM

Here we created a new device, /dev/xvdb. Now we start up the vm and run fdisk
# fdisk /dev/xvdb

You'll get some error messages saying you don't have a valid partition table. Create a new partition, 'n', primary = 'p', partition number = '1', default first and last cylinders.

List this partition table 'p' now and notice the Id type is 83 or something. Change this to 8e. 't', '8e'. List the partition table 'p', again, notice the new Id type is 8e. Save partition table 'w'.

Create a physical volume from this device
# pvcreate /dev/xvdb1

Create the logical volume group from the physical device
# vgcreate lvm-oracledb /dev/xvdb1

Create the logical volume using 100% of the free space in the logical group lvm-oracledb
# lvcreate -l 100%FREE lvm-oracledb -n lvm0

Format the file system
# mkfs -t ext3 /dev/lvm-oracledb/lvm0

Create a mount point
# mkdir /oracledb

Add the following to /etc/fstab to automatically mount the volume when the computer starts up
/dev/lvm-oracledb/lvm0 /oracledb ext3 defaults 1 2
Mount the volume
# mount -a

DONE!!!

Remove a Disk (LVM)
Remove /etc/fstab entry
[root@vl-ucm1 ~]# vi /etc/fstab

Unmount the device, get device name with: lvdisplay
# umount /dev/lvm-stellent/lvm0

OR

[root@vl-ucm1 /]# ls /u01
downloads lost+found oracle
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# umount /u01
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# ls /u01
[root@vl-ucm1 /]#

If you get:
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# umount /dev/lvm-stellent/lvm0
umount: /u01: device is busy

Find out what is using the device with:
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# fuser -m /dev/lvm-stellent/lvm0
/dev/lvm-stellent/lvm0: 3557m 3620m 3621m 3622m 3623m 3624m 3625m 3626m 3627m
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# ps auxw| grep 3557
root 3557 0.0 0.5 10856 3104 ? Ss 10:55 0:00 /usr/sbin/httpd
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# service httpd stop
Stopping httpd: [ OK ]
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# umount /dev/lvm-stellent/lvm0
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# df -h
And you should no longer see the disk with 'df'

Remove any entries from /etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf that refer to this disk.

use lvremove to remove the logical volume
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# lvremove /dev/lvm-stellent/lvm0
Do you really want to remove active logical volume "lvm0"? [y/n]: y
Logical volume "lvm0" successfully removed

use lgdisplay and lgremove to remove logical group
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# vgremove lvm-stellent
Volume group "lvm-stellent" successfully removed

use pvdisplay and pvremove to remove physical volume
[root@vl-ucm1 /]# pvremove /dev/hdb1
Labels on physical volume "/dev/hdb1" successfully wiped

remove partition with fdisk /dev/hdb, 'd', enter, 'w' = write partition and exit
# fdisk /dev/hdb

Remove the disk entry from the vm.cfg file, and restart the vm.


Shrink a LVM
Just create a new disk, copy over contents and delete old volume.
	
	
