Table of Contents


{toc:style=disc|maxLevel=3}


h1. Sendmail

h2.  Reference WebSites

* @http://www.redhat.com/docs/manuals/linux/RHL-8.0-Manual/ref-guide/s1-email-sendmail.html@
* @http://www.resoo.org/docs/sendmail/sendmail_setup.txt@

h2. Background Info

Several of the configuration files in /etc/mail, such as access, domaintable, mailertable and virtusertable, must actually store their information in database files before Sendmail can use any configuration changes. To include any changes you make to these configurations in their database files, you must run the makemap hash /etc/mail/<name> <  /etc/mail/<name> command, where <name> is the name of the configuration file to convert. 

If you need to generate a new /etc/sendmail.cf  file to configure Sendmail, you should utilize the m4 macro processor. If you ever edit the /etc/mail/sendmail.mc to add functionality to Sendmail, backup your current /etc/sendmail.cf  file, generate a new one by executing the m4 /etc/mail/sendmail.mc > /etc/sendmail.cf command, and add any previous changes from the /etc/sendmail.cf  you backed up to the new /etc/sendmail.cf  file. After creating a new /etc/sendmail.cf, you must restart Sendmail to make it take effect. The easiest way to do this is to type the service sendmail restart  command as root. 

h2. Installation Steps

bc.. 
[root@dbel ~]# yum -y install sendmail dovecot sendmail-cf xinetd

h2. Configuration

h3. MX Records

You can have multiple MX records for a single domain name, ranked in preference order. If a host has three MX records, a mailer will try to deliver to all three before queuing the mail.

MX Records must be in the following format:

@domain.com.    IN    MX   10     mail.domain.com.@

The Preference field is relative to any other MX Record for the zone and can be on any value between 0 and 65535. Low values are more preferred. The preferred value is usually 10 but this is just a convention, not a thumb rule. Any number of MX Records may be defined. If the host is in the domain it requires an A Record. MX Records do not need to point to a host in the same zone, i.e. an MX Record can. point to an A Record that is listed in any zone on that DNS or any other DNS server.


updated: @/var/named/chroot/var/named/lab.com.zone@
@lab.com.        14400   IN      MX      10      dbel.lab.com.@



h3. Sendmail, etc...

bc. [root@dbel ~]# service sendmail start
[root@dbel ~]# cd /etc/mail
[root@dbel mail]# cp sendmail.mc sendmail.mc.orig

* Edit the /etc/mail/sendmail.mc file -- Comment out the @DAEMON_OPTIONS(...)@ line to look like this:

@dnl DAEMON_OPTIONS(`Port=smtp,Addr=127.0.0.1, Name=MTA')@

bc. [root@dbel mail]# vi sendmail.mc

* Regenerate the /etc/mail/sendmail.cf file using the m4 macro:
bc. [root@dbel mail]# m4 sendmail.mc > sendmail.cf

* Add your Internet mail domain to the end of the @/etc/mail/access@ file: @mydomain.com	RELAY@

[root@dbel ~]# cd /etc/mail
[root@dbel mail]# cp access access.orig
[root@dbel mail]# vi access

* Add your Internet mail domain to the end of the @/etc/mail/local-host-names@ file: @mydomain.com@

This is how the /etc/mail/local-host-names file should look like:

bc. # cat /etc/mail/local-host-names
# local-host-names - include all aliases for your machine here.
mydomain.com

* Add a @sendmail:ALL@ entry (without the quotes) to the end of the  @/etc/hosts.allow@ file.
This is how the /etc/hosts.allow file should look like:

bc.	# cat /etc/hosts.allow
	#
	# hosts.allow   This file describes the names of the hosts which are
	#               allowed to use the local INET services, as decided
	#               by the '/usr/sbin/tcpd' server.
	#
	sendmail:ALL

bc. [root@dbel etc]# cp hosts.allow hosts.allow.orig
[root@dbel etc]# vi hosts.allow

* Restart the xinetd daemon:
@# /etc/init.d/xinetd restart@

* Restart the sendmail daemon:
@# /etc/init.d/sendmail restart@


h1. Dovecot

Dovecot is relatively easy to configure, but backing up the config file is still important.

bc. [bash]# cp /etc/dovecot.conf /etc/dovecot.conf.original
[bash]# vi /etc/dovecot.conf

Dovecot needs to be told which protocols it will accept for incoming client connections, the setting below is the main dovecot configuration file; note its detail for both IMAP and POP3 protocols.

bc.. protocols = imap pop3

login_dir = /var/run/dovecot/login
login_chroot = yes
login_user = dovecot

protocol imap {
login_executable = /usr/libexec/dovecot/imap-login
mail_executable = /usr/libexec/dovecot/imap
login_greeting_capability = yes
}

protocol pop3 {
login_executable = /usr/libexec/dovecot/pop3-login
mail_executable = /usr/libexec/dovecot/pop3
pop3_enable_last = no
}

auth_executable = /usr/libexec/dovecot/dovecot-auth
auth_process_size = 256
auth_cache_ttl = 3600

auth default {
  mechanisms = plain
  user = root
  ssl_require_client_cert = no
  passdb pam {
  }
  userdb passwd {
  }
}

h2. Turn on service

bc. [root@dbel etc]# chkconfig --level 2345 dovecot on
[root@dbel etc]# service dovecot start

h1(#add_user). Add an email user

bc. [root@dbel ~]# adduser -s /sbin/nologin fenton

set their email password as well:

bc. [root@dbel ~]# passwd fenton

h1(#mail_client_setup). Mail Client Setup

In your mail client use IMAP.  Email address in this case is:

bc. fenton@dbel.lab.com

Incoming Mail Server: dbel.lab.com (IMAP)
Connection Security: None
Use Secure Authentication: No

Outgoing Mail Server: 
Use security: No
Use Name and Password: No
Use Secure Authentication: No

This basic setup allows anyone to send mail into the server.  When you go to pick up your mail it will ask for a password but it won't encrypt it over the wire.  This is just a development email server setup.

h1. OLD - Maybe not used.

bc. [root@dbel ~]# chkconfig saslauthd on
[root@dbel ~]# chkconfig saslauthd --list
saslauthd      	0:off	1:off	2:on	3:on	4:on	5:on	6:off
[root@dbel ~]# service saslauthd status
saslauthd is stopped
[root@dbel ~]# service saslauthd start



	