"home":../../index.html > "Training":../index.html > "Machine Setup":index.html > Ubuntu

p(toc). Table of Contents

{toc}

h1. Ubunut Setup

h2. Startup, Shutdown, Scripts

To make it usable, and make possible it's automatic startup on server boot change its permissions and update-rc.d

bc. 
sudo chmod +x /etc/init.d/git-daemon
sudo update-rc.d git-daemon defaults

The daemon can be started or stoped by accesing:

bc. 
sudo /etc/init.d/git-daemon start
sudo /etc/init.d/git-daemon stop

To remove the file, just replace the word default with remove:

bc. 
update-rc.d git-daemon remove

h2. Java JDK

Then, to install the JDK, start here to download: http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/widget/jdk6.jsp

bc. 
cd /opt; sudo mkdir java; 
sudo mv /home/ftravers/bin/jdk-6u20-linux-i586.bin /opt/java
cd /opt/java; sudo chmod +x /opt/java/jdk-6u20-linux-i586.bin; sudo ./jdk-6u20-linux-i586.bin

Set up some symlinks to make java more accessible.  The first one will need to be updated each time you upgrade a minor version of Oracle Java 6.  The update alternatives can be used to select a different JVM (eg OpenJDK or Java 5)  You could add further symlinks for javac etc but I will not need them on this server.

bc. 
ln -s /opt/java/jdk1.6.0_20 /opt/java/java-6-oracle
sudo update-alternatives --install "/usr/bin/java" "java" "/opt/java/java-6-oracle/bin/java" 1
sudo vi /etc/environment 

add in:

bc. 
JAVA_HOME="/opt/java/java-6-oracle;"

test with:

bc. 
cd /
java -version

Should look okay now.  You can now launch Eclipse and it should run okay.

h2. Subversion for Eclipse

bc. 
sudo apt-get install libsvn-java
cat >> ~/bin/eclipse/eclipse.ini
-Djava.library.path=/usr/lib/jni

h2. Cisco VPN

Get the VPN software from here:

http://edelivery.oracle.com/EPD/GetUserInfo/get_form

Then follow this blog:

http://ilapstech.blogspot.com/2009/09/cisco-vpn-client-on-karmic-koala.html

bc. 
sudo /etc/init.d/vpnclient_init start
sudo vpnclient connect Australia

h2. AnyConnect Cisco VPN Client

bc. 
ftravers@ftravers-laptop:/$ ps -ef | grep isco
root      2177     1  0 11:37 ?        00:00:00 /opt/cisco/vpn/bin/vpnagentd
ftravers  2193  2177  1 11:37 ?        00:00:04 /opt/cisco/vpn/bin/vpnui -autolaunched

bc. 
/opt/cisco/vpn/bin/vpnui -autolaunched &

h2. Launcher

GNOME Do 0.8.3.1

synaptic input in search box: "gnome do " note space after do.

h2. Screen Capture

Shutter

h2. Web Server

bc. 
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
/etc/apache2/apache2.conf

h3. SSL Web Server

bc. 
sudo a2enmod ssl
sudo nano /etc/apache2/sites-available/default-ssl # set DocumentRoot etc
sudo a2ensite default-ssl
sudo service apache2 restart

h2. Installing Programs

you can create a *.desktop file like:

bc. 
[Desktop Entry]
Name=Eclipse - Helios
Comment=Eclipse - Helios, IDE
Exec=/home/ftravers/bin/eclipse_helios/eclipse/eclipse
Icon=/home/ftravers/bin/eclipse_helios/eclipse/icon.xpm
Type=Application
Categories=Development;IDE;
Path=/home/ftravers/bin/eclipse_helios/eclipse/

format description can be found here:

bc. http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Howto_desktop_files

valid categories can be found here: 

bc. http://standards.freedesktop.org/menu-spec/latest/apa.html

You may want to pass $ @desktop-file-validate foo.desktop@ to check out that your file is OK.

Then, you can install it: @desktop-file-install foo.desktop@
