"home":../../index.html > "Projects":../index.html > GIT

p(toc). Table of Contents

{toc}

h1. Current Task

* A clean setup of eclipse/tomcat

h1. Tasks

h2. Setup a Web Service - DONE

Setup a test web-service so we can opperate against it.  We'll use apache-axis for this.  See: "Web Services":../../training/SOA/webServices.html for more information.

h3. References

* "How to use maven with Axis":http://www.jroller.com/cdaniluk/entry/maven_and_axis2
* "How to put Axis artifacts: AAR, MAR, into an EAR using Maven":http://devnulled.com/content/2008/01/maven-including-axis2-artifacts-into-ears/
* "This plugin takes as input a WSDL and generates client and server stubs for calling or implementing a Web service matching the WSDL.":http://ws.apache.org/axis2/tools/1_2/maven-plugins/maven-wsdl2code-plugin.html

h2. Setup a Web Service Client - DONE

Next we will use Axis to generate a java proxy for the WSDL provded by our previous step.  We'll also use this for the web services provided for by CRMOD.

h2. Setup a secure (SSL) web service - IN PROGRESS

h3. References

* "Calling a secure Axis web service via SSL, through a proxy":http://alweb.homeip.net/dw0rm/dblog/?p=38
* "How to call a secure web service":http://www.eu-sol.net/science/bioinformatics/tutorials/secure-biomoby-web-services/how-to-call-a-secure-web-service
* http://www.artima.com/forums/flat.jsp?forum=46&thread=106915
* "Web Services Security":http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/webservices/library/ws-sec1.html

h1. Current Issues

Tried to access the CRMOD web services using their WSDL in SoapUI (even supplying the basic

h1. Reference

h2. CRMOD

h3. Production:
h4. URL/Login

"https://secure-ausomxfba.crmondemand.com/OnDemand/user/Homepage":https://secure-ausomxfba.crmondemand.com/OnDemand/user/Homepage
username:  ONGS-TEST/FENTON.TRAVERS@ORACLE.COM
password: <usual>

h3. Stage
h4. URL / Login

url: https://secure-ausomxfca.crmondemand.com
user: ONGS/FENTON.TRAVERS@ORACLE.COM
pass: <usual>

h3. Production

h4. URL / Login

url: https://secure-ausomxfba.crmondemand.com
user: ONGS/FENTON.TRAVERS@ORACLE.COM
pass: <usual>

https://secure-ausomxfba.crmondemand.com/OnDemand/?ssoid=ONGS
user: fenton.travers@oracle.com
pass: <Oracle SSO password>

h3. SSO

Application Name: itsupport
Application Home URL: https://itsupport-stage.oracle.com/
Application Success URL: https://itsupport-stage.oracle.com/osso_login_success 
Application Logout URL: https://itsupport-stage.oracle.com/osso_logout_success 
Administrator Email: jason.miao@oracle.com
Application Description: CRMOD is a hosted Oracle CRM Applicaton.
Site ID: D3F0925F 
Site Token: YXFKL583D3F0925F 
Encryption Key: 7B911B3DB59E8DCF 
Single Sign-On URL: https://login-stage.oracle.com/pls/orasso/orasso.wwsso_app_admin.ls_login 
Single Sign-Off URL: https://login-stage.oracle.com/pls/orasso/orasso.wwsso_app_admin.ls_logout 

h3. WS Home Page

"https://secure-ausomxfba.crmondemand.com/OnDemand/user/WebServAdmin":https://secure-ausomxfba.crmondemand.com/OnDemand/user/WebServAdmin

h3. Sample WSDL

@https://secure-ausomxfba.crmondemand.com/OnDemand/user/Account.wsdl?WSDLOBJ=Account&WSDLTYPE=CUSTOM&XSDOnly=N&ECBS=Y@

h3. Cookies

5 cookies when logged in, 4 when not (JSESSIONID) goes away.

(domain:cookie_name(s))

crmondemand.com:ORA_OD_LUG, ORA_OD_MC
secure-ausomxfba.crmondemand.com:JSESSIONID, ORA_OD_LT, ORA_OD_OSI
